Q-05.Q5. Describe the process of contributing to any open-source project on GitHub in a step-by-step manner.
Ans:
If you want to contribute to someone else's project but don't have write access to the repository, you can use a "fork and pull request" workflow.

A fork is a new repository that shares code and visibility settings with the original “upstream” repository. Forks are often used to iterate on ideas or changes before they are proposed back to the upstream repository, such as in open source projects or when a user does not have write access to the upstream repository.

You can contribute by submitting pull requests from your fork to the upstream repository. For more information, see "Fork a repository."

Forking a repository
This tutorial uses the Spoon-Knife project, a test repository that's hosted on GitHub.com that lets you test the fork and pull request workflow.

Navigate to the Spoon-Knife project at https://github.com/octocat/Spoon-Knife.

In the top-right corner of the page, click Fork.

Screenshot of the main page of repository. A button, labeled with a fork icon and "Fork 59.3k," is outlined in dark orange.

Under "Owner," select the dropdown menu and click an owner for the forked repository.

By default, forks are named the same as their upstream repositories. Optionally, to further distinguish your fork, in the "Repository name" field, type a name.

Optionally, in the "Description" field, type a description of your fork.

Optionally, select Copy the DEFAULT branch only.

For many forking scenarios, such as contributing to open-source projects, you only need to copy the default branch. If you do not select this option, all branches will be copied into the new fork.

Click Create fork.

Note: If you want to copy additional branches from the upstream repository, you can do so from the Branches page. For more information, see "Creating and deleting branches within your repository."

Cloning a fork
You've successfully forked the Spoon-Knife repository, but so far, it only exists on GitHub. To be able to work on the project, you will need to clone it to your computer.

You can clone your fork with the command line, GitHub CLI, or GitHub Desktop.

On GitHub, navigate to your fork of the Spoon-Knife repository.

Above the list of files, click  Code.

Screenshot of the list of files on the landing page of a repository. The "Code" button is highlighted with a dark orange outline.

Copy the URL for the repository.

To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "HTTPS", click .

To clone the repository using an SSH key, including a certificate issued by your organization's SSH certificate authority, click SSH, then click .

To clone a repository using GitHub CLI, click GitHub CLI, then click .

Screenshot of the "Code" dropdown menu. To the right of the HTTPS URL for the repository, a copy icon is outlined in dark orange.

Open Git Bash.

Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.

Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied earlier. It will look like this, with your GitHub username instead of YOUR-USERNAME: